and it came to pass in the month of
Nisan in the 20th year of King
Artaxerxes when wine was before him that
I took the wine and gave it to the king
now I had never been sad in his presence
before therefore the king said to me why
is your face sad since you are not sick
this is nothing but sorrow of heart so I
became dreadfully afraid and said to the
king may the King live forever why
should my face not be sad when the city
that the place of my father's tombs lies
waste and its gates are burned with fire
what do you request so I prayed to the
God of heaven and I said to the king if
it pleases the King and if your servant
has found favor in your sight I ask that
you send me to Judah to the city of my
father's tombs that I may rebuild it
then the King said to me the Queen also
sitting beside him how long will your
journey be and when will you return so
it pleased the king to send me and I set
him a time
furthermore I said to the king if it
pleases the King let letters be given to
me for the governors of the region
beyond the river that they must permit
me to pass through till I come to Judah
and a letter to ACF the keeper of the
Kings forest that he must give me timber
to make beams for the gates of the
Citadel which pertains to the temple for
the city wall and for the house that I
will occupy and the King granted them to
me according to the good hand my god
upon me then I went to the governor's in
the region beyond the river and gave
them the Kings letters now the King had
sent captains of the army and horsemen
with me when sanballat the Heron ID and
tobiah the ammonite official heard of it
they were deeply disturbed that a man
had come to seek the well-being of the
children of Israel so I came to
Jerusalem and was there three days then
I arose in the night
I and a few men with me I told no one
with my God had put in my heart to do at
Jerusalem nor was there any animal with
me except the one on which I rode and I
went out by night through the valley
gate to the serpent well and the refuse
gate and viewed the walls of Jerusalem
which were broken down and its gates
which were burned with fire
then I went on to the fountain gate into
the Kings pool but there was no room for
the animal under me to pass so I went up
in the night by the valley and viewed
the wall then I turned back and entered
by the valley gate and so returned
and the officials did not know where I
had gone or what I had done I had not
yet told the Jews the priests the nobles
the officials or the others who did the
work then I said to them you see the
distress that we are in how Jerusalem
lies waste and its gates are burned with
fire come let us build the wall of
Jerusalem that we may no longer be a
reproach and I told them of the hand of
my god which had been good upon me and
also of the king's words that he had
spoken to me so they said let us rise up
and build when they set their hands to
this good work
but when sanballat the annoyed to
by the ammonite official and guess from
the Arab heard of it they laughed at us
and despised us what is this thing that
you are doing will you rebel against the
king so I answered them and said to them
the god of heaven himself will prosper
us therefore we his servants will arise
and build but you have no heritage or
right or memorial in Jerusalem